for going to Dallas.
>> Thank you. I'm calling the meeting to
order. December 16, 2025
and over planning and zoning. Uh welcome
everybody for the public hearing. Um
first of all, I'd like to announce that
uh this was an application for a
subdivision that I'm sorry the uh the
public hearings first. Right. Right.
First I have to seat members or do do I
do that after
>> don't need don't need to seat members
for the public hearing.
>> Okay.
>> So let's start the public hearing. Um
>> we should we should know which members
are here though. Correct
>> or matter because
>> a member can go back and review the
public hearing today. Okay.
>> Okay. I'd like to announce our members
that are in attendance. Jed Larson, In
Lean Hushton,
Scott Persan, and Jay Cayman's. And did
I miss anybody?
>> And myself.
>> Yourselves. Patrick Dhy.
>> All right. I'd like to call the public
hearing to order. And I'll start with
Wayne.
Um this public hearing is uh on an
application for a special permit
uh to construct a single family
residence with a market rate accessory
apartment. The application was made per
section 4.11.3
of the zoning regulations.
Uh the applicant is Soal Cody is here
and Bushnell the engineer that worked on
the site plan. And right now I'll let
them take it away. Let
>> Absolutely. Go ahead.
>> So good evening. I'm Andrew Bushnell, a
licensed professional engineer and land
surveyor uh with Bushnell Associates. Uh
we prepared a site plan for the site
here in front of you front of you
tonight. Um, I have a cycling that's
dated uh December 2nd, 2025. I believe
yours is the latest edition November
2019, 2025. So, there's really very
slight differences in the
>> I was able to look at it on the
computer, but the computer wouldn't let
me print it.
>> Okay. So, um Okay. So, um basically we
have a 1.23 acre lot here. time located
on Route 6 near the intersection of
Shotty Mill Road. It was approved back
in 1994. Original six lot subdivision.
Um the lot 290 was one of those lots
that was approved. Basically the
subdivision went from ours to the lot to
the to the east down to Route 6 to
Shadow Mill Road. Um the two lots to the
west of us were previously existing lots
before the subdivision. Um so it was
approved in '94. It's in a business
zone, but the wording in the subdivision
allowed for be a special permit if it
wanted to be developed as a residential.
Um, all the other lots in the
subdivision were developed as
residential. Um, the house next to it at
272 is residential, maybe residential.
Um, but and then 262, at least the part
that above us is just vacant property.
you know, pretty much everything else
around there, everything else around
there is is residential. If you get
further down to 60° there heading that
way, they can do some commercial. So, um
there is a
start six is a state road. Um
and the original subdivision plan showed
our driveway being shared with the
driveway from 290, which also uh
services another driveway
>> 296.
>> 296. Yeah, that was part of the
subdivision. Um, just at the, you know,
Andover allows two two residents per
driveway. Um, so what they did is they
just shared their part out in the in the
state right away. Kind of a
>> not a great scenario geometric wise and
things and talking to the DOT now
ran it by they're like, "Yeah, no way.
We're not going to allow that because
they they have the jurisdiction what's
in the state right away doing the
property line the road. So therefore we
just we we have our own driveway now own
driveway single single driveway coming
up into the property. We're proposing
four parking spaces as Wayne said it's
three house with a with a accessory
apartment um onebedroom accessory
apartment. So I showed four spaces kind
of going back and forth a little bit how
many spaces I needed. I figured one per
bedroom, you know, would would be good.
Um, you know, um, so this we have the
four parking spaces, enough area to turn
and back up and head out to the road. So
you're driving down a fort, not back out
onto the road. You don't want to do
that. Um, we have the house, a couple
couple patios um, shown on the plan with
the house. Um, there's wetlands on the
property over on the west side. You can
see those. We took those from the
original location of the original
subdivision. You can see the 100 foot up
view area. Um the house is not in there
nor the driveway nor the septic tren the
septic system. It's really just some
grading in some lawn area. The well is
contained within that 100 foot upland
review area. Um we did get approval from
the wetlands agent um for this for this
activity in the upland review area. Um
since the trees were cleared into the
regulated area, you can see the existing
tree line approximate existing tree
line. Um the owner did agree to replant
some evergreen trees as shown as a
mitigation to the the tree cutting there
and then give some buffer between the
cleared area and the wetlands. Um
uh we did design a septic system for the
for the three-bedroom housing and the
accessory apartment. Um had that
reviewed by Eastern Highlands Health
District. That's been approved. Um
um
so basically uh that's an overview of
the the site plan. We have the you know
the typical erosion control things on
there details details. Um but that's an
overview of the plan for that. if you
have any questions and then presuming
there's architectural here.
>> Which way is the house?
Are they going to they're going to face
the high the road or face the
>> Yeah, the front face.
>> So your backyard is going to be abing my
house.
>> No, no, not the back yet.
>> Yeah, the front the front of the house
faces the face of the road. So the
backyard is going to be abing my
property.
>> You're 290.
>> Yes.
>> Yep.
>> So no no garage. All the vehicles will
be parked outside.
>> Uh no garage outside. happen to be
one car garage.
>> Either the one or two garage is one or
two.
>> Hold on. That's perfect. I've seen this.
>> There's no garage.
>> There's no garage. It's just Yeah,
there's no garage,
>> right? So far Parker spots.
>> Yeah. outside
talks outside.
>> Yeah. No, there's no garage.
He was supposed to put the garage in
garage.
Right now they're outside.
one had a garage and then I'll be able
to come back and get a handle that.
>> How how long how long the driveway going
to be? Like how far is the house set
back from?
>> Uh well from the property line it's 90
97 feet.
>> So just about 100.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's it's probably a
good uh I mean I don't have a dimension
on here but it's at least 15 feet to the
edge of the road. Probably more 20 feet
to the edge of the road. So there
probably 120 fake jack rattles off the
walls in that place.
>> What's that?
>> Are going to rattle off the walls in
that place.
>> Yeah.
You need a Do you need a turnound for
emergency vehicles?
>> No. No driveway.
>> Um I mean haven't had a turnound area.
>> It's not a rear lap.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
>> No.
Are we still is there going to be a
question phase or can I just kind of
>> Well,
I want to let him present either for my
family. If I don't like it, I'm selling
it. It's not going to be as a duplex
already, you know. Okay.
>> So, either I be living here or selling
it.
>> Okay. But whoever buys it has to occupy
that property. They can't use one of
them. They can only use one of them. So
right now with Johnny, are are you
planning on moving there with your
mother?
>> Yes. Yes. That's my plan.
>> That's your plan. Yes.
>> Right. Cuz you understand?
>> Yes. Yes. Absolutely. I do.
>> The owner has to live there.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. That's cool.
>> That's my plan to my mom. Yes.
>> Not much you can really say about it
now. Of course you not perfectly within
your right to build a house there.
>> I think it's a quite a large house
though for a small piece of property.
The last I heard that property was only
0 93 of an acre and that was Jean San
Martino.
And I've actually got the original plans
for the property layout.
>> This is it got surveyed.
It got surveyed as 1.2.
Yeah, that's what the latest survey is
on it.
So the what
if I want you feel me to interject the
what Andrew has there on the site plan
um conforms exactly with how lot one was
depicted in
the subdivision plan that was approved
in 199
this is dated it was signed
by PNZ in 1996.
And this is this is a copy of that if
anybody wants to look at it.
>> Was the public hearing notice sign
posted on the property?
>> Yes, it was. But the information
>> initially the date was I just
>> but it got fixed the day after I talked
to W. So I don't have any problem with
the data not being correct.
Then we received notice in the mail.
Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> No issues there. No issues.
>> Um any other Were there any written
comments sent in, Wayne, for this or?
No. Okay.
>> When is construction supposed to start?
before sun.
>> Well, you got to wait till the ground
for us anyway.
Now, what kind of guarantees do we have
that the owner is going to occupy that
property?
>> On my side, I can guarantee, but I don't
know this when I once I sell it. You
can't guarantee them what are they going
to do with their home. free part
guarantee that it's not going to be
because if I spend that month along I
don't think anybody can be paying rent
to afford to pay that rent.
>> Yeah. But if somebody else buys that
house they still have to the owner still
has to occupy the property. Is that
correct?
>> That's correct.
>> Yeah. I just want to make sure that you
can't sell it
>> too many people in there cuz
>> So is the main house market price also?
Is that dictated?
>> No.
>> So, you're paying market price for the
apartment, right? The in-law apartment,
>> right?
>> What about the main residence?
>> The in-law apartment is only 450,
>> right? What about the main residence?
That's that's just strictly a single.
>> It's a single family. It's a
>> I mean, there's no market rate or versus
affordable housing if it's a primary
residence. It's not it's not there's
nothing designating it as afford as
affordable. The reason for the public
hearing is because the
accessory apartment so wanted it to be a
market rate accessory apartment rather
than rather than an affordable accessory
apartment.
>> Okay.
>> There's a different process to
a different process for for those for
affordable um
So he he chose to go this route which is
the more difficult route
to have a market rate accessory marker.
>> The state statute that
>> Why is it why is it more difficult?
>> Well, there's a state statute that was
put in place to encourage affordable
accessory apartments.
>> Are you talking about the bill that just
got signed two months ago or is this
something that's been in place already?
It's been in place for a number of
years.
>> It's 2021.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> It's slightly different than what
square foot is the house total with the
apartment.
>> I did my calculations. I came out. I
wrote it on from
its
>> I did some calculations
>> 2500 square ft of the
um main residence and 450 square ft for
the
>> almost 3,000
>> size
the the septic's been engineered
already. you know where the leeching
field is and all that stuff and
everything.
>> And how you getting um how you getting
power in there?
>> Are you coming off of that first pole
off our driveway or you going to come
>> off?
My question is specifically for
utilities also. How you going to get
your internet and your electricity onto
that property?
>> I've got it coming off the pole to the
to the west coming up
>> the one off our driveway.
>> No.
>> Oh, you're going to come across Route
Six with the There's a pole out the
pole.
>> That's a stub pole. That's a overhead
guy pull. That's not
>> Yeah, I'm thinking
>> that pole is not even regulations to put
anything.
>> Maybe they can run it overhead to there
down.
>> I don't know. No, they can't.
>> I I work I work for
>> I'm a licensed electrician.
>> That's a That's a That's an Eversource
thing.
>> So, you're going to have to pay extra
money to get they got to put a 40ft pole
there.
>> So, that's I mean I need a transformer
which means We need at least something
we'll go back.
>> Okay. I'm just asking. I'm just asking.
>> That's all.
>> But yeah, that's going to be a big
extra.
And while we're here, I might as well
let you know that tree on your property
is hanging over my tap bad that needs to
be attended to.
>> The tree that's hanging over my power
tap coming off of the driveway. Your
guys didn't do anything to it when I
asked them what they were going to do
when they cleared the land that they
said no. with a tree guy. You know
>> what's that?
>> I should have come up to meet now with a
tree guy.
>> Well, I asked him at first and then I
got your information, but then the
meeting came up because my son used to
rent.
>> Yeah, I know.
>> So,
I tell you at the meeting
up to me, you know, I'm not too far from
the road. I just work down the road.
>> I understand
over there. So,
>> it's not hard to find me.
>> Hard to find you at all. But we'll solve
the tree. No problem.
>> And uh probably the sooner the better.
>> For sure.
>> It the whole back of it is uh it's
broken off and the the tree guys left
another tree leaning up against it and
it's already on a a 40° list.
>> Okay.
>> The thing is like this hanging over my
tap.
>> We'll take care of
>> and I did check with Eversource and
they're like that's kind of questionable
because if that comes down you could
have done something about it and they're
going to charge you. And if they take
all that wire down up the driveway,
that's that that's thousands and
thousands of them they're going to bring
back to you.
>> Did you guys state your names before you
started talking?
>> Yeah. Thompson
290.
>> Yeah.
>> Jason Guyger, 296 Route 6.
>> 29 years at the top of the property. So
obviously
um when we bought into this subdivision,
I knew there was a maker plot there that
eventually would be sold. So I'm not
here to be the cog.
>> Oh, we understand.
>> You got to understand I raised my family
there and I live right on the Hop River
Trail. I got one of the nicest
properties on the Hop River Trail. Okay.
Uh I maintain a 600 foot driveway which
is a deed rightway which I plow Tim
plows. Uh we maintain we've been putting
uh you know millings on it whole nine
yards. Um so I am pleased at Johnny to
hear that you know I guess but the DOT
probably made you do it cut a new
driveway in because
>> it would just cause another headache at
the end there for who's going to plow
and maintain. So I'm happy about that.
They may.
>> I'm happy about that. I'm looking
forward to having a a good neighbor.
>> Absolutely.
>> Because I'm a good neighbor
>> and I look I I want a good neighbor.
>> I appreciate that. You will have a good
neighbor.
>> That's that's all that's I just want to
hear what you're doing.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm not here to bust anyone's chops. I
want to ask good questions.
>> No.
>> And I just want to make sure all the
procedures are being followed and I have
a full understanding of what's going on.
That's it.
>> Yeah, that's it.
Very good.
Now, what does the uh footprint of this
house look like? What size is it? How
many square feet is it for the
footprint? Is that
>> the foundation size?
>> Yeah, foundation type.
And is it excavated or is it not a slab?
>> Slab. Oh, no. Basement
slab
essentially. You want to check it out?
>> Yeah, please.
>> First floor and second floor there.
>> And then um how's your access to the uh
accessory department? It's it's
>> inside the house.
>> So, it's not going to be a separate
entry.
>> No.
>> Yes, it is. Isn't that Isn't that
usually a requirement? You have to have
a separate eg breath in breath.
>> So that's to us.
>> Okay. So how do you how do you enter and
exit?
>> Yeah. He's got a separate entrance.
>> So you have a patio.
>> Okay.
And that's that's the door.
>> Yeah, that's the ent separate entrance.
Open. Yeah.
>> Okay.
Yeah. All
right. And the apartment's on the first
floor because I'm looking at the first
floor plan here, right, John? Right.
>> What is it?
>> The um the actual apartment's on the
first floor, right?
>> Yeah. The
>> So, you're like you're coming in, right?
This is like a patio. A door will be to
your right.
>> Right.
>> Kitchen.
>> And then this this is the whole And then
>> just just this is the
>> right here. And then this is your
entrance. And where where's your
entrance? Right here. Right. Right here.
>> Okay, I got you. Like a common area. You
go this way or you go that way. This is
Route Six
>> down here.
>> And the house is facing the highway.
>> This will be Route Six down here. The
house is facing
>> uh the house is what's the house facing
in
>> Right. It's facing the front of the
house.
>> It's facing the highway. Facing the
highway. North patio and sack is going
to be against your propert against your
property. Okay.
Great.
Are there any uh questions or comments
from our our remote attendees?
>> Patrick.
>> Oh, go ahead.
>> Hi. Um maybe I missed it. Um could you
just ask the two gentlemen who've been
speaking um sitting on the side of the
table to Scott's left just to put their
names into the record.
>> So opponent
>> Andrew Bushnell.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. Any other uh questions or
comments before we
>> I was looking at that.
>> Can you hear me?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Um I was looking at the in the
accessory apartment and the bedroom does
not appear to have any closets. I
thought that a bedroom would always have
a closet of some sort.
over there.
>> Yeah.
Isn't she?
>> Okay. How big is the bedroom?
>> The bedroom probably 250
square ft.
>> So that's what
>> is it? So
>> it's a pretty good size bedroom then.
Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> More than 10 by 10. Yeah. 10 by 15.
It's
>> Yeah, I can't tell you exactly how big
the battery for the whole to 450. We
split it on
this is probably 150 150.
>> All right.
Any other questions, comments?
Was there any consideration on the
sighting of the house for solar
uh power in the future to take advantage
of that opportunity?
>> I never thought about that. Maybe
something in the future.
>> Yeah.
>> It's already facing south.
Okay, that's good. It's
I think that's it. See this?
>> What else?
>> No, I'm good.
>> So, John, you mentioned like you might
put some evergreens up or something like
some sort of like what are you thinking
like along the driveway side or
>> around your driveway?
>> Okay. Coming up
>> something probably at the front six.
>> Okay. about between your land and my
land.
>> We'll see. Depends how good the name you
are.
>> I've been there 30 years.
>> We've been ordering pizzas for a long
time, right, Johnny?
>> I don't think you believe me.
>> Why would you like pizza before you go?
>> Would you like a fence between our
houses?
>> No, no, no. I was talking about trees. I
didn't say a fence. I said you were
talking.
>> I can put some trees.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I definitely some
trees.
>> That's all.
>> Yeah,
>> that's all. I don't want to I don't want
to put fences.
>> You don't want fence? Yeah,
>> you're going to need a fence in the
front of that house. Believe me.
>> Yeah.
>> You're going to need a big fence.
>> Tell you that those trucks come down
that hill there and they hit that Jake
break in front of your house. I hope you
got no pictures on the walls cuz they
ain't going to last.
That's why we got trees.
Big thanks.
There any other uh questions or comments
or um
>> I think that's it.
>> All right, hearing none. Um make a
motion. Do you think we have everything
we need to
>> It's their presentation.
>> Ah, very good. Are you all set?
>> We're all I'm set.
>> Yeah. Yes.
>> All right. Well, at this point, I'd like
uh like to make a motion to close the
public hearing.
I don't have a second.
>> Is that something that's normally
motioned or just not required?
>> Oh, what what you know I've normally
done was ask anybody see any reason why
we shouldn't close the publication.
>> Fair enough. I like that. Okay.
>> Anybody see anybody have any reason why
we should continue or not close public
hearing at this point?
Our hearing none. Uh going to close the
public hearing. Thank you very much. at
7:29. At 7:29 p.m.
>> All right. At this point, I'd like to u
follow the order of the regular planning
and zoning meeting.
>> Thank you everybody. All right. you
leave those.
>> Yeah,
>> thank you.
I wasn't even like I said, I wasn't even
slightly different from the one that
Scott did.
So,
do you guys free to hang around or or
you can go at at this point once the uh
regular meeting starts the commission
will decide
>> if they're going to deliver deliberate
on it tonight or
push it.
But there's once the public the public
hearing is over. So the interaction
between the commission and you guys
while stay
all the stuff together too.
>> All right. All right. At this point, I'd
like to
call to order the regular planning and
zoning meeting for December
16, 2025.
And I'd like to
see members and alternates if
applicable. President is Jen Larson
and Scott Pan
and Annay
and Leanne Hutchinson. So that we have
our full board and we don't need to see
any alternates but J Cmans is on pending
>> and
so thank you everybody for attending the
public hearing. It was a last minute
public hearing that we did not vote on
to have, but it was in cause of the
market rate apartment accessory
apartment that was not
originally approved in the subdivision.
Right. Does that sound good? And
um
were there any additions or changes to
the agenda?
Um, I just I'm just going to bring this
up uh and I'll leave it up to you. I had
some conversation with uh attorney Cordo
uh this morning regarding the Genevese
um
matter. And um
if you'd like to go into executive
session, I can relate
uh relate that discussion as it's you
know attorney attorney client privilege
whatever discussion.
>> Um
I don't think it's necess it's
absolutely necessary. It's pretty pro
pretty
straightforward. want to ask Jed's
opinion on this.
>> Certainly easy to do. We've got nobody
here other than commission members. So,
you know, all we have to do is turn the
recorder off and
>> Okay. So, I don't think it would take
very long.
>> I'd like to add that to the agenda then.
We're going to
>> make a motion. I make a motion to have
executive session and pauseing.
>> This is This is
>> second.
>> Thank you, Leanne. Second. Leanne
seconded.
Mr. Chair.
>> Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Don.
>> So, I know I would just as part of the
motion um you would want to invite
staff, I believe, which would I think
probably just be myself and Wayne.
>> That that sounds good. Yeah. Part of
that motion.
>> This part we're just putting it on the
agenda. Yeah.
>> Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. You haven't gone
in. I'm sorry. This was just to add.
Thanks, Jay. Or thanks, Jed.
But yes. Um, so
all in favor to add that to the agenda
starting with Jed.
>> Hi.
>> Scott.
>> Lean.
>> Hi.
>> And
you.
>> Thank you. Okay. So, I'd like to do that
right now.
Go ahead.
>> You got a vote. I vote. Yay.
>> Motion passes.
>> 500.
>> Thank you, Jed, for reminding me the
procedure.
>> That was my our first motion.
>> Gotcha. And um
>> do we need to pick a place for it?
>> Yes, I'd like to uh place it right now
before public speak.
Um,
my recommendation would be put it in old
business 5C.
>> Okay.
I was hoping to just get it out of the
way quick,
but fair enough. I'll take that
recommendation. We'll we'll add it to
old business 5C
executive session.
Thank you, Jud.
All right, moving on to public speak.
Uh,
there any I don't think there's any
public in attendance on the Zoom and
there's nobody in the room, but I'll
give it a second.
Any commission members? Public speak?
No. Okay, moving on to old business. Um,
we'll get right to uh A, which is
item A was a recommendation from
attorney
Branch.
Uh
that
um
at the last meeting uh a uh the
regulations concerning
the regulation changes that were voted
on, notably the aggra tourism
regulations and uh
removing minimum dwelling size, adding
um modifying
requirements, the mining
um those were voted on and approved.
Those zoning zone changes were voted on
and approved, but a an effective date
was not chosen at that time. So, the
recommendation is that uh the commission
revote with an effective date
for those regulations.
Any
discussion? Uh what what do you think
the best effective date would be? That'
be a month. It has to be a month from
our vote. Correct.
>> Yeah. That's a good Yeah. 30.
>> So Wayne has to get the results in the
newspaper. Yeah.
>> Then we got to have 15 days for somebody
to appeal.
>> Okay. And then once we're through that,
if nobody appeals, then we can make it
effective. So if we shoot for a month,
we can get we can get there.
>> I would think 30 days would be an
appropriate number.
>> Sounds good to me.
>> You going to call it January 15th.
>> Thank you, John.
>> And I did not publish the results of
last week's the last meeting's vote on
the recommendation of
But you can get that in for this Friday
if you put it in tomorrow. I can I can
put it in for tomorrow. Yeah.
>> Okay. And
>> I've got it. It's ready to go. I didn't
send it in.
>> I have a question about the word mining.
>> Yeah.
>> Go ahead.
>> Is that I don't remember. talking about
that. I I know we talked about it. I
don't know if it was this or not. I
guess that's my question. Is this the
same thing somewhere? We talked about
removing x number of yards of gravel. Um
is that what's meant by this or did we
talk about mining in particular? And I
just don't remember using that term.
>> No, you you remember correctly, Leanne.
That was we were talking about somebody
removing excess material and not having
a permit for excavation or mining until
we tried to uh get rid of that loophole.
>> Okay. So, is it covered by this? Cuz
like I said, just reading it now, um I
didn't get
what you just said out of this. So, I'm
just wondering if it's self-explanatory
to people. Yeah, that
what you guys discussed and deliberated
at the last
and voted on at the last P&Z meeting was
a modification to the section on mining
that um required a special permit to to
uh when removing material
in conjunction with a building permit
that's been issued.
It's it was kind of a loophole in the
mining uh regulations
that would allow some somebody to come
in
um
with a building permit.
The current language allows
allows the removal of material in
conjunction with a building permit.
So the concern was,
and it's happened in other towns, that
somebody would buy a piece of land, get
a building permit,
and
in reality mine the property
while they while they were doing
construction of this building.
and uh
not have to go through the process of
getting a special permit to mine.
Does that make sense?
>> Okay. Yes,
>> it it does make sense, Wayne. The the
thing that you know, I was looking in
our section 16, which is sand and gravel
bit excavation, which is will be
changed. I don't see the word mining in
there. So, I don't know where
>> mining, but
>> you think it's two different names?
>> No, I I think it's exactly uh what we
talked about for the sand and gravel bit
excavations. I just don't know where the
word mining came from to get in the
discussion.
>> It's probably it's just shorthand. I
don't I don't think you need to read too
much into the the phrasing of this this
deliberation. you you would have to
probably blame me for that because
that's what I think of it as.
>> Okay. But on the you know the little the
sheet that you had with the the changes,
the word mining doesn't exist in there
anyway.
>> Okay. So, you probably said mining, but
the fact is we're we're referring to
kind of a loophole in section 16, the
gravel pit excavations, and we're trying
to make sure somebody couldn't uh
excavate a mountain to put a little shed
in there and say they uh need to do it
to put up a building. So, it was a poor
choice of words on my part to use the
word mining in the
description of item A here.
basically to prevent a mining operation
from starting in the first place to
circumvent the regulations.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> like I said, I mean you guys uh
>> Yeah, we
>> you've already
>> we've already voted to approve that, but
we did not vote an effective date.
>> Correct.
>> Um
and attorney Brandon thought it would be
cleaner if you guys just revoted.
>> Yes. And
chosen effective date
>> is that all this other stuff but the
front is blood.
>> Yeah. So all of it.
>> Yeah. We voted.
>> So I Yes. But go ahead.
>> So I would like to make a motion.
>> Yes.
>> That we
approve the proposed zoning regulation
changes that were discussed during the
public hearing on November 18th,
2025. That changed articles 4.9.2, 2
4.9.3
7.8.0.9
8.1 9.1
10.7.2.1
11.1 11.2 2, section 16, which is the uh
gravel bit one, section 19, and section
22.
>> That's clear, Jeff. I second that.
>> Thank you.
>> With with an effective date
>> with
15 January.
>> Very good.
>> 2026. 2026.
>> You still that, Scott?
>> Yes, I second that. again. Scott
seconds. Um, let's take a vote.
Uh, an
>> hi. I sorry,
but yeah.
>> Lean H sound.
>> Hi.
>> And
J.
>> I.
>> Scott. I
>> Scott. And and I'm Patrick Dhy. I. So,
the motion passes. 500.
The effective date will be January 15th.
Okay. Moving on to item B on old
business. Uh plan conservation of
development. John, you want to take it
away?
>> Sure. Thanks. Um so I am we are we are
approaching the uh the end of the tunnel
here. Um
I have shared uh I believe last Friday
or Thursday I sent out um the draft plan
of conservation and development in its
complete draft form. Um it is uh PDF of
118 pages. Um this is
more or less the final layout uh or
proposed layout where where we can make
some tweaks to it. But um or I I think I
don't know maybe Jay is the only new
commissioner. Um so I I don't want to
necessarily go through the whole thing
but uh again we you know we we started
with a vision statement um and that
vision statement included uh six one two
three four five six yes we envision
statements and those we envision
statements um dealing with quality of
life dealing with housing um agriculture
and natural resources transportation and
trails uh economic development I'm sorry
um complete streets and uh resilience
and and sustainability.
Each of those we envision statements was
given a substantive chapter. Those
substantive chapters, you know, dis
discuss the current cir circumstances,
establish large goals and then also
include uh very specific
uh recommendations for action which um
are at the end of each chapter. Um we
have a couple of things that were added.
I we we went back and forth several
times with the conservation commission
on their maps. So the the conservation
uh chapter has been has been picked
through several times and apparently
they still have some additional
comments. Uh but we did add I would just
note on page uh I think it's page 57
correct. Um
no 67. Yeah. in the economic development
section. Um,
a
future land use map, which is which is
really the the most significant addition
to this plan that was made in the last
month and a half or so. um basically
combining a lot of the economic
development stuff, a lot of the the
conservation stuff um with a a focus on
the Route Six corridor and we calling
the basically the broad Route Six Hop
River corridor the balanced growth
corridor which because of course this is
both our our you know one of our most
significant natural resource areas the
the the um riparian areas and the flood
plane associated with the Hop River but
it is also Route Six and one of our most
important um economic development
velment corridor. So, you know, the the
nature and type and the and the
specifics of development along that
corridor are going to be extremely
important. Um, and then, you know, also
just sort of overlaid some of the some
of the zoning and proposed zoning um
based on our on our discussions um
several months ago. So, we have a
proposed uh future land use map. Um and
then at the very end um as that we
discussed a couple of months ago at the
end of all of the substantive chapters
we have a short conclusion and then the
implementation matrix which is appendix
A uh in which we basically extract all
of the goals from the different
substantive chapters. um place uh a lead
entity and supporting entity to
basically identify whose job is this
task, whose to-do list does this go on,
as well as a time frame and and
estimated cost for sort of big picture
planning purposes. Um so the the the
plan as as you know drafted is is
basically u a complete draft. Um, and
I'm happy to answer questions or or take
comments on this, but the the big
picture, if you agree that this is
largely in complete form, obviously
there there can still be some tweaks,
some edits, and some reworking. Um, but
if you believe that it is basically in a
complete enough form to set a public
hearing, that's what we need to do. Uh
we need to set a public hearing a
minimum of 65 days probably from
tomorrow
um so that we can get this draft plan to
the uh Department of um state of
Connecticut Office of Policy and
Management, OPM, the um Capital Region
Council of Governments, the Board of
Selectmen, and the Town Clerk's Office.
all of which uh needs to be given 65
days um ahead of the public hearing for
this to review. Um this requires just a
public hearing of the planning and
zoning commission. This is not a town
meeting. This is not a referendum. This
is not the business of the board of
selectmen other than their
responsibility to review and comment.
This is a decision solely of the
planning and zoning commission um
following the holding of a public
hearing on it. So, um, again, I I'm
going to stop sharing. I can put it back
up in a second if people have, you know,
specific questions or comments. But what
I would ask is a two-part question.
Number one, do you feel that this is in
basically
sufficiently complete shape to schedule
a public hearing? And number two, when
would you like to have the public
hearing? Um, I think it is no earlier
than February 19th
in order to give us time.
Um, so that's that's what I've got to
share.
>> Sorry.
>> Okay. I just muted you on the computer.
Go ahead.
Um,
would you recommend a a special meeting
or have this at a regular meeting?
Um, I think that's that's really up to
the commission if you you know uh the I
I suppose you could you could either
schedule it, you know, to to get it over
with and and adopt it in February so we
could have a special meeting then or you
could wait until your March meeting on
the hope and assumption that you're not
going to be slammed by, you know, a half
a dozen other public hearings that same
night.
But it it doesn't it really doesn't
matter other than that.
Well, the earliest we can do it is
February 19th. The uh planning and
zoning meeting for that month would be
on the 17th. So, we just
>> miss it. Um
we could probably go to the Mar March
meeting and do it in conjunction with
that one. That certainly uh gets you
past the uh
5day window, right? Is there any uh
problem with waiting that long?
>> Uh no,
>> just Okay. Any other uh the other
commission members feel about the
completeness or mostly completeness of
our plan of conservation?
>> I think he's ready to go.
>> I think so. Yeah. Everybody else?
>> And Leanne?
>> No, I don't mind doing it this way.
>> Everybody pretty comfortable with that?
And like John, you did say like there's
any little things that we need to tweak
that we still have a little bit of time
left to or do you need to submit?
>> Yeah. No, so we can we'll we'll put this
in there there again the conservation
commission has a couple of minor tweaks
there is um I think in one of the
introductory sections uh oh no no it's I
just scrolled past it um
in the economic development section
there is a note that says add a map
showing the town garage property and
proximity to nearby destinations there
so there's some you know some
illustrative stuff that we're going to
put in um but there's you know no
nothing hugely substantive needs to
happen. And then, you know, the purpose
of the public hearing and this 65 days
is to give, you know, OPM and the
selectmen and the cog time to comment.
And if they have comments, you know,
that'll be received in the public
hearing like anything else. And, you
know, following the public hearing, we
can make some final tweaks to it. But,
yeah, this is, you know, I I think, you
know, are we 95% there? Yeah, I think
so. So, you know, um I I think that's
certainly ready to to to send around.
And I, you know, commend the commission
on its on its hard work um to this
process slogging through all the all the
chapters.
>> Well, your hard work and all the other
committees and commissions and they did
a lot of work to prepare this. So, thank
you very much everybody's input.
I guess the the question I still have on
the timing of this is
you what do we think or how should we
approach the board of selectment to see
you know what they want
>> and uh
we got two board of selectman
>> members here that could maybe give us a
hint but you know if we roll this thing
out of the public hearing would the
board of selectman feel slighted that
you know they didn't get uh the special
session on this or do they Yeah, I'm not
sure what what their thoughts are. We're
putting, you know, a fairly significant
document, the blueprint of the town.
You would think that that would be the
board of selectman would kind of like to
have a
>> rough draft out tonight, but read it.
Read it.
>> Right.
>> Good. Great. Then you and could get some
feedback at one of the upcoming
meetings. They want anything else.
>> Sure.
>> You could I mean if you wanted you could
invite the selectman you know depending
on your your agenda to come to the
February meeting and just share some
preliminary thoughts if they'd like. But
again um the selectman
can if they wish um find you know that
this is not an appropriate plan of
conservation and development. they can
make a resolution to that effect. And if
they do, that changes your vote for
planning and zoning. Um such such that
if they essentially say, "No, we don't
like this plan," you would be forced
into a supermajority almost like
overriding a veto. Um so instead of
adopting this, you know, a 54 majority
or something like that, you'd have to
adopt an 8-1 or something like that. But
um again, you know, I I'm not
necessarily anticipating that, but if
you would like to invite them to, you
know, talk it through, um at in in
February perhaps ahead of the formal
public hearing, that's certainly
something we could do.
>> I would just say send it out to all the
select men, let them know, you know, if
>> Yeah.
>> read this when they, you know, have
time.
>> Yeah. if they have any questions or
comments
>> and we'll and we'll give them we'll give
them the the date of the proposed public
hearing and and say please you know pro
provide any findings ahead of that.
>> Absolutely. Sounds great. Thank you,
John. Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Do you want to I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, did
you did you get a a motion to hold the
public hearing on adoption of the plan
on the March 17th meeting? Is that
right?
I have no motion yet, but uh
might as well make the motion myself.
Make the motion to uh
send notice of public hearing uh 65
days. Well, it's going to be at least 65
days from tomorrow and that would be
scheduled for
just have the date March 17th
>> 70
>> and also to forward a copy to the board
of selectmen for their review and uh
invite them to our February 17th meeting
if there's any discussion or changes
that they they deem necessary. or
applicable.
A second. All right. Um let's let's get
the vote to that. Um
Scott I
>> Leanne
>> I
>> thank you for
>> Hi.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> I don't know what's wrong with my sound.
>> Okay. I
>> I
and uh myself I vote I. So the motion
passes 500.
We are set the public hearing for the
new plan of conservation for March 17th
2026 and inviting the board of selectman
to attend the 17th of February meeting.
>> Who's going to send that to the board of
selection? Is that you Patrick or is
that John?
>> I'll I I can I can send it tomorrow.
Okay. Well, thank you, John.
>> Yeah, I'll I'll I'll route it through
the the uh unless unless um you guys
feel like it should be sent directly to
them. I was going to send it through the
town the interim town administrator's
office so he could you could distribute
it.
>> Town administrator sounds sufficient.
Yeah.
>> Okay. I don't Okay, we'll do it and I'll
send it to I'll send it to the the state
and to the COG as well.
>> Perfect.
And they they also have, correct me if
I'm wrong, they also have input. If they
see anything egregiously
terrible, they'll go, "Hey, what's going
on?"
>> Yeah. I I don't think I don't think
either of the other governmental
entities has the same, you know, quote
unquote veto authority that the
selectman do, but they Yeah, they can
they can make comments, of course.
>> Yeah. And I I noticed when other towns
do uh when they change their rags, they
we get notice of their stuff too, right?
So I think it's like common courtesy or
something.
>> Yep.
>> It's common courtesy like or you have
the regional
>> Well, it's it's it's statuto statutoily
mandated, but yeah, but it's Yeah,
>> but it's basically it's basically a
courtesy heads up.
>> Thank you.
All right, moving on to
item C, executive session.
>> Nobody in attendance.
>> So, can we pass the recording? Do we go?
>> Yeah, I would a motion to go into
executive session inviting all all
commissioners and staff.
>> Make a motion to go into executive
session inviting all members,
alternates, and staff.
>> Second.
Um,
take a vote.
I
>> Oh, I see your hand.
>> Hi.
>> Okay. Lean Hutcherson.
>> Hi,
>> Scott. Bersan.
>> I
Jed Larson. I
>> Patrick Dohy. I motion passes 500.
Uh there was no actions taken as a
result of the executive session. So
we're back on to our regular meeting
agenda.
On to item number six, new business.
Um acceptance deliberation of
application
25-1 SPON 280 Route 6 construction of a
single family residence with a market
rate accessory apartment per section
4.11.3
of the Endover zoning rights.
um
discussions. Um the real reason for the
special permit is because of the market
rate department. Correct.
>> Correct.
And is everybody satisfied? That was uh
from the public hearing.
I am with you know Ann's comment. I
thought it was a good one. We ought to
have a closet in the bedroom.
So, uh, yeah, requirement of the
building code or
>> it might be not sure, but I thought
that's how you determine, you know,
that's how you have a bedroom, you got
to have a closet.
>> That's how realtors determine if it's an
actual bedroom or not. I think
>> Yeah.
>> So, they it should have a uh it should
have a closet. that gives us something
to uh you know say is a
condition of approval but it gets
modified for that but
go on our merry way.
>> I would point out um that the location
of utilities is supposed to be on the
site plan
>> and it was not.
>> It's not.
>> Okay.
So, I didn't pick up on that until
>> Oh,
>> until he mentioned it.
>> Because you're not an electrician.
>> Says it's a stump pole. Yeah, that's
just like the
it that just carries the weight from
another
>> I I don't know how much of an issue that
really
should be except the
visuals test uh that joined us for the
public hearing obviously have a
an interest in where the utilities are.
>> Yeah. They don't want it to go over
their back.
>> They don't want it on their property, I
suspect. Yes.
>> Yeah.
and they did they did let him know that
it was going to be an additional cost
and he didn't seem to have an issue with
it, but like you said, it's not on the
plan.
>> Okay.
>> So, the we we could
>> Well, we he it was on the plan.
>> Oh, it was.
>> But until somebody said that
>> the plan's wrong,
>> and we don't even know that what he's
saying is accurate or not.
>> That's true.
>> We don't And it's just
>> taking it
person. This was put in here. I don't I
don't see any other poles or anywhere
else. That's where he the electricity
came in right there. He put put it on
the print.
You know, we don't know if that's not
accurate or not.
Put the bowl where the There should be
other bowls in here.
>> Was this in um the uh
>> Yeah, it was in the package I right
there. So that everybody at home can
>> I can put it up on a
>> Oh yeah,
>> each me. John, give me I I need to share
something. John,
>> yeah, hang on. I I I think you should be
able to
>> Yeah, you should you should be able to
go ahead.
>> Eric,
sure.
or how far apart? No idea.
The he stands for
that is as big as I can I can make it
bigger.
>> Do you know that Wayne? How far apart
both are?
Well, there's a there's
>> 800 ft.
>> Well, there's a snap pole across the
street. No, it's not across the street.
Frontier pole.
How far pulls it?
Oh,
see
>> I would
I would say there see 300 feet that'd be
a football field apart
>> in that same too far, right?
>> Yeah, it seems
>> 300 ft is the furthest in rural areas.
Yeah, we're talking Route Six where they
where there's, you know, there's pretty
sure it's three-phase power out there,
all that good stuff.
>> It is. Yeah, the Route 6 line is
threephase 100 and between usually 100
and 125 ft, but it it could vary
depending on terrain, pole height, and
>> so there's probably another one in here
somewhere.
I'm pulling up the C the CT do utility
accommodation manual.
Yeah, I only I only see that snap pole
across this on
the east side of that property.
one on my side right here.
>> Yeah, this is going to be kind of across
the street from your house, right?
>> You didn't hear me? I'll freak out.
And then the next wall is a is a long
way down the highway. Actually,
I bet it's 400 ft
cuz I think it crosses the other side.
It might be one over by JK and then it
crosses.
It seems like it's up to the power
company.
>> It is. I was surprised at the comment
that
I wouldn't have thought that a property
owner would have the ability to say I
don't want the power coming across my
property or something that
>> that I'm not sure of.
I know from you know mine I've got hole
right outside my house where the you
know the wires come to right down
>> my wires my wires cross my neighbors
probably
>> it's all up to ever source they put it
where they want
>> to be the so it's kind of out of our
hands
>> well yeah
>> so we're here to act on the accessory
park correct it's correct the statement
you We ought to have the uh
utilities on the site plan
>> and we can have them added to the site
plan is a condition of approval.
But uh and it is on there whether it's
correct or not we don't know.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Yeah.
>> It's between the applicant and the state
>> or the
art.
>> Yeah. a resource and
>> it's a big production to get power put
into the house.
>> Yeah.
>> So we could here again Yeah. We can list
his conditional approval. He puts the
puts it on his site plan which it might
already be there. Um and he just has to
have that. It is right there.
>> Yeah. And it comes straight across to
his life from what I
>> Exactly. doesn't go on anybody else.
>> Okay. So if
so when you think uh you know you make
the comment that the utilities aren't on
there is uh
>> is that line the utility line or
>> let's
make the condition of approval that the
utilities don't go on the neighbor
>> he's yeah that's right he he's showing
Yeah.
The way he's showing the utilities, he's
not on anybody else's property. You're
right. You're right.
>> So,
and you're going to bring your cable and
if you had telephone, you're going to
bring that in the same way.
>> Yeah.
So, you know, it looks looks okay to me,
you know, as long as that's what that
is, you know. like um
the only condition okay with it.
>> Yeah. The only condition of approval I
would think that is they got to put a
>> I just had to find the link ease for
electricity.
>> Yeah.
>> But they're there.
>> You know how to read these better than I
do.
>> Well, I'm learning. Do we need standard
conditions of approval on this or are
they kind of not applicable? In this
case,
>> it is a special permit.
So, the site plan should be um filed
with the
special with the zoning board and zoning
board's uh
>> standard conditions of approval and then
the extracts. Right. Okay.
And that puts it on the record. I mean,
you one one thing you could say that on
the um
that the site plan um has to specify
that the uh owner of the property
has to reside in either the apartment or
the main residence. Would that be a uh
something that that goes in there?
>> Is that already in our regulations
though?
>> It's in the regulations. Yes.
>> Okay. So,
>> and that would be something different. I
mean, we have a lot of accessory
apartments in town.
Those are all before
the rules were, right? I mean, I haven't
seen any language like that with any
other accessory.
>> There's one right across the highway
from that bowl.
if you're interested.
See it right there.
>> Okay. So, they was depicted right here.
>> They could send it over.
>> So, they they could go to that hole.
>> There's a show later than that.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Should we put
put something in the land record? you
know, a notice in the land record that
says uh yeah,
>> well, there's there is a notice of
action.
>> Okay, that that goes
>> we could, you know, specify in that that
uh you the owner of this property
has to reside on a property
>> per section whatever of the zoning
regulations. Yeah,
>> sounds good.
I would. Okay. So, is that something you
just do in the notice of action or do we
just do we need that as a condition of
approval?
>> But that's
>> I think I could just do it in thection.
I think you can too
>> because you know we shouldn't be citing
this conditions of approval all the
different regulation things.
>> No, that's a bad habit.
>> I just brought you know because of the
concern that was raised.
>> Yep. And I think it's a good one. Yeah.
How would you how would you know uh that
would be
brought with you lost the history
after
>> the existing accessory apartments in
town. I don't think any of us have any
idea whether
>> right
>> I mean
>> it would have that I believe is being
rented out to two different people. It
would only be an issue if somebody you
complain about and we have to go
investigate it and I'll do that. We
don't have a uh I'll bet the poll that
they're saying right there
takes power over to this small house
that's over here. Comes across the
highway cuz that's where our main power
is. Comes across the highway and then
goes to this house. So then I would say
they go right from here to there. Yeah.
Right to this house. Right. This is this
one. There's there's one right here.
There's there's plenty of them down
there.
>> So there's all sorts of opportunities to
get to get to that place.
>> Yeah. Sad. So I would say that power
goes for to that.
>> They're probably one closer to that cuz
they're all less than 200 ft like 150
160 ft between poles. Okay.
So, I'll make a motion that we approve
application 25-1 SP
for construction
of a single family residence with a
market rate accessory apartment
uh subject to
standard planning and zoning conditions
of approval plus the uh addition
of a closet to the bedroom in the
accessory apartment.
>> Second that.
>> Jed made a motion and Annay second.
Uh let's take a vote.
Um Jedi I
>> Ann
>> Hi.
>> Leanne.
I
>> Scott.
>> Hi.
>> And I vote I as well. Motion passes 500.
Application accepted. But per conditions
that stated in the motion,
the application was approved.
>> Approved. Thank you for the correction.
All right. Moving
on to correspondence
looking at me for correspondence
other than uh Ernie Curo I which we
discussed
I don't have any correspondence or no.
All right. Anybody else
hearing? None. Moving on to mission
discussion.
Anything anybody wants to bring up? Uh
so it came to my attention that we did
do this public hearing a little
differently than what we had done in the
past.
Doesn't doesn't necessarily mean that
what we did was incorrect. It's just a
question of of how you'd like to do it.
And as you know, we we had gotten to the
point where we would accept the
application. We'd get a report from the
zoning agent that the application is
essentially complete. Then we scheduled
the public hearing. Do you gain anything
by doing that? I tried to think about
it. I said, I don't really know that you
do. Uh it just gives us a chance what it
really does. And this was easy because
we had an engineer approve the plan or
do the do up the plan. It's got a lot of
stuff. It's when the guys come in with
no information, you know, it's lacking
all kinds of stuff and uh
you schedule a public hearing and we
don't have assurance that we're going to
get what we need to get.
That's the only drawback that I could uh
you come up with on that that
>> um because otherwise you know all the
stuff shows up the day before the
meeting and then they want you know
>> they want a decision right away.
>> Yeah. that they always wanted and I
always like taking the little bit slower
approach but I know like ZBA they always
do uh you know the the meeting
>> first meeting they have it's the public
hearing and then they uh you know
normally decide on it right away after
that. So, it's in my mind, you know,
it's kind of up to you. Uh,
>> okay.
>> I think
>> I think this was the exception, not the
rule. Um,
>> if I might
>> go ahead. Yeah, sorry.
>> When attorney Curo called me this
morning about Genevvisi, I took the
opportunity to bend his ear and ask him
about this very question. And um what he
told me was no uncertain terms is that
the application
is deemed accepted
at the next regular meeting of the
commission or 35 days after
>> they
started and that the commission doesn't
have to vote on an exception accepting
ing an application or anything like that
that that the application is accepted,
>> not approved, but accepted.
>> Right. Right. It's
>> documented. It's received.
>> Right.
>> The clock starts ticking to have that
public hearing.
>> Yep.
>> Within 65 days.
Is it 65? I need to check my chart. 65
65 days after
after that. So if the application comes
in on Monday
and the planning and zoning commission's
meeting is on
Wednesday,
the application is accepted on
Wednesday.
>> Right.
>> Okay.
>> Y
>> and the clock starts clock starts
ticking on having that public hearing.
>> Right.
>> So u
of course it's 65 date. So there's ample
opportunity for so so basically
sort of a modification what Jed is
talking about that I should come to say
the application came in um when do you
guys want to have the public hearing
>> right
>> yes and we don't vote on whether or not
we're going to have public hearing and
we have to have
>> right
>> now you have the you have the latitude
of scheduling a public hearing for
anything you think there's public
interest in that warrant. So in this
case there was more public interest than
I thought there was going to be.
>> But uh um
yeah, normally the applications don't
come in so that Wayne would have had a
chance to get the newspaper notices out.
>> Right. That's the thing. You have to get
the newspaper notices out. So if it came
in on
>> Well, the newspaper notices for the
public hearing,
>> right? Yeah. So, yeah, that normally the
the applications come in at the last
minute. They're incomplete.
>> Yeah. And all that. So, anyhow, I I
recommend I always like the we get it,
then we can see is it in the condition
to schedule a public hearing and get a
you know, input from Wayne on that.
Yeah. And then we have the time to Okay,
now we're going to put the uh notices
out, notice it, and all that kind of
stuff. And to that end, I now have a red
sign hanging by my computer that says,
"Public hearings are scheduled by the
commission."
Fair enough. But that also leads uh to
my next point of this is um this was
kind of an easy one, right? But what if
we needed an engineering review on our
side,
>> right?
>> We do we have a town engineer
>> town engineer. And in the past, there's
been commission members that were were
certified engineers and they donated
their time and services to the town. Um,
unfortunately, we do not have a
certified land use engineer or civil
engineer on staff or even part-time or
anything. So if something difficult
comes up, I think that we should
have the ability and you know the the
legal right to hire
a a certified engineer to help us along.
But this was you know this took up 15
minutes. So are they going to be able to
do utilities? as well. I mean, I I don't
know what uh Wayne's already doing a ton
of stuff and I don't know if you're
certain.
>> Okay. So, um what does everybody else
think about that? Because we, you know,
these do come up quickly and then we
have 65 days, right? So,
>> right,
>> we probably should have an engineer or
something.
>> Well, we do. Joe Dylan is town's
engineer.
>> Oh, he's our town engineer. But is he
still because I was told we don't have
an engineer.
>> Okay.
>> Well, you can go check that out because
last I knew Joe. And
>> we've we've also used Barton and
Lejudice who have been sort of on call
for the town administrator for a couple
of different grants.
>> Um I we'd have to check the procurement
process, but if they were if they were,
you know, essentially competitively
procured, you could you could use them
to hand work off. Um and if I if I
might, Mr. Chair, it's funny. I I
actually had this exact same
conversation with the Colombia Planning
and Zoning Commission this afternoon.
Um, and they asked me to to draft up a a
proposed fee regulation that would allow
you at the time essentially at the time
of receipt before you've, you know, when
you're still at least a month out from
opening the public hearing to assess,
you know, to to do basically to get um a
third party engineering estimate for
what, you know, the technical review
would cost and then assess the applicant
with that with that fee.
um for you know for the full technical
engineering review and then basically
give the engineer the time in between
the application receipt and the opening
of the public hearing to do the review
and have it ready to go for the hearing.
Um, so which is so that that's I I would
say when you know when you do your
formal application receipt, which as
Wayne said, you know, can be as early as
24 hours after the the application's
been dropped off, uh, depending on when
the commission meeting is, um, you know,
if if it comes in and you see that there
are technical issues that are beyond
sort of the basic ability of staff,
Wayne and myself and and whoever else,
the public works director or whatever to
to review. and you do need additional
outside uh review, that would be the
time to to to basically lock it down and
set that time frame. But we could we
could look at the that process.
>> Isn't that in our regulations? Is that
isn't it in our regulations that we can
get
>> we Yes. Yep.
>> But it doesn't necessarily mean we don't
charge Gohead.
>> I'm sorry.
>> We doesn't necessarily mean that we
would charge the applicant for that. We
should and it says we can have an
engineer review. It just doesn't the
applicant will pay it.
>> The applicant will pay.
>> No.
>> Should we reserve that for if it's
something that's outside of our normal
applications?
the next case that you know would be
coming up like that and it's anywhere
storm water management system you know
comes into play but if they develop you
know somebody buys and develops the
gravel pit that's going to take a
humongous storm
water plan and uh
and I certainly don't have the uh the
skills or the knowledge to go you know,
check that thing out. We need we'd need
to get somebody looking at that.
>> Normally, you don't need that engineer
review, but something like that, you
definitely would.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
and and I was going to bring this up
either. I can bring it up now or I was
going to bring it up in my zoning user
report. Um
there's
three parcels that have recently had
quite a lot of interest in town on
Gilead Street.
Uh there's a parcel there that was
>> 18 acres.
>> Yep. That's gotten a lot of interest.
>> Sure. Yeah.
Two parcels on Wheeling Road.
One of them being uh our former town
manager's property, town administrator's
property
and across the street.
And then of course up on
not Skinner.
>> It's the other end of Skinner.
>> Yeah.
>> The cotton tree end of
that parcel there too. So, if there's I
suspect somewhere along the line here,
we're going to be confronted with
subdivisions
and and stuff like that, which may or
may not have roads associated with them
and stuff like that. We're going to need
an engineer to review plans like that
and on our be on our behalf. Yeah.
Correct.
>> Right. Okay.
So I guess Wayne pull the string on is
Joe Delan still our town engineer.
>> I will find out if we do if we do have a
town engineer on retainer.
>> Yeah because when we did the the wreck
fields he was the guy.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Town engineer on retainer. I sus and the
regulations clearly say that the
commission can have plans reviewed by
the town engineer. It's all over the
place in these regulations. It is. Oh,
good. All right. Yeah. I just wanted to
double check because I bumped into
former commission member Ed Sherisley
and I know that he he had done some
engineering proono for the town in the
past, but I just want to make sure that
we are all set and everything.
>> Um, any anybody else uh remote to
any thoughts? Okay. Hearing
none.
Question.
>> What was that? Go ahead, J. I can't hear
you.
>> Oh, okay. I just wanted to know what the
what the address on that property.
>> Which property?
>> A little while ago. Waiting for
>> not here in J.
You're muted.
>> No, he just he just muted himself. I
think he's done.
>> There he is.
>> Very muffled.
>> Yeah.
>> What's the address you're looking for,
Jay?
>> I was just curious what the
critical
report.
>> Unfortunately, Jay, you're not coming
out on our speaker. If you want to type
it into the chat feature maybe and then
we can see what you're trying to tell
us.
Why don't we move on and we can come
back to him if he
>> Yeah,
>> you you're good for now. Okay. Thank
you, Jay. But yeah, you know, bring
bring that up at the next meeting, too.
Or
>> either that or the chat. Yeah,
>> either that or just give me a call.
>> Yeah, give Wayne a call. Okay. All
right. Moving on to administrative
reports.
Um
I don't I I
administrative report the the the
interest has been in the those three
larger parcels,
>> four larger parcels. Um but the the
Gilead Road when that came on the
market, my phone was ringing.
So that one has got a lot of interest.
It's a nice piece.
I would buy it.
>> That was sold in like no time.
>> Yeah, I that was uh
former uh that was Bill Kovich's
>> daughter granddaughter.
>> Yeah.
>> That's all.
>> Uh moving on to inland wetlands.
So the uh application is in inland
wetlands now for the bridge over uh
Bunker Hill.
>> Awesome. Yeah.
>> Long hill. Long Bunker Hill's done. Long
>> Hill's
not quite I mean it's open.
>> Yeah.
>> The uh and so uh you know somewhere in
the near future we probably should do an
824 referral. I've asked our intro town
manager for an 824 referral.
>> Okay.
And that's all I got. Okay. Um John
Kuscowski, you got what do you got?
>> Yeah. Well, I you know, the the the
conclusion of the POCD draft was a big
big completion. So, uh that's great. Um
I've been, you know, coordinating with
the interim town administrator. Um and
would suggest, Mr. chair that and I
don't I you know I I we didn't go into
how the the search is going for for his
for Eric's replacement but um at some
point what we'd probably like to do and
we we've talked about this in planning
and zoning is sort of transition the
work that I'm focusing on from you know
developing the plan to working on you
know setting priorities for
implementation. Um and I don't know if
that you know certainly you should be
involved with that Mr. Chair I would
think that town administrator would be
involved with that. Um, so it might be
appropriate in the next, you know, month
or two to to set up a meeting with the
three of us at least um to to kind of
look at, you know, the the year
following adoption essentially.
>> Yes, that that sounds good because I'm
also uh I was notified that I have to
come up with a planning and zoning
budget, too. So,
>> direct uh let's yeah, let's schedule
that meeting with Jim and uh be more
than happy to go over that and
>> Okay. get the ball rolling thousand in
there for an engineer. See what the
board of selectman do with that.
>> Well, we've got a professional services
line and that would be,
>> you know, um
I think we bumped it up last year
because of the gravel bit thing.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh
>> whether
you we need to figure out how we're
funded, John, going forward.
>> Yeah, exactly.
And that has normally not been in our
budget, but we got to keep that line
item for the professional services and
legal fees. Uh, you know,
>> sounds like there's
>> business coming. We need to be ready to
>> There could be. Yeah. I mean, just
trying to read the tea leaves, that's
all.
>> Okay, that's that's all I got. We'll
we'll coordinate something.
>> Thank you, sir.
All right, moving on to agenda item 10,
public speak.
And
>> just a question, why is public speak in
there twice? That's in the bylaws that
way.
>> Uh, we put it that way because somebody
might want to see something right off
the bat. Somebody might have got a
question coming up on something that we
went in through. And I figured I I liked
encouraging members of the public to
come that if they come, I'd be happy to
get their input. Fair enough. Fair
enough. Excellent.
Anyone else?
Hearing none, um let's get on to the
item uh agenda item 11, approval of
minutes.
I'll make a motion to approve the
planning and zoning commission public
hearing and regular meeting minutes from
Tuesday, November 18th, 2025.
>> Second.
Okay. Any discussion before the vote?
Um I have a couple questions.
>> Okay.
>> Um one is under 5C
executive session. Um it says Jed Larson
motion to enter executive session etc.
Then it says no second on motion no
vote. But then it says return from
executive session at 9:06 p.m. which
this is my recollection we had an
executive session but it looks like we
moved to go into it but we didn't but we
did.
>> So
>> do you remember
you see what I mean?
>> I thought I thought that I had a second
to the motion but we got sidetracked
somehow on on some discussions and and
uh obviously I missed it. I did not go
back to the tape to watch it. If Marina,
you know, said there was no second on
the motion, I'm sure she is correct. My
notes say Ann seconded that motion.
>> Okay. Well, you know, and then uh
but that's I wouldn't be surprised. I
you verbally uh
I thought I had a second there too, but
uh
Oh, no. Hold it. ancreate add she
seconded the adding it to the agenda.
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> I knew we we did that correctly. It it
could be that it was just an error and
so we did all the execut you know we we
agreed to add it. We we agreed to do it
and I probably just goofed it up is my
suspicion. But I thought I had a second
there. But uh again Marina's pretty good
at that. She wouldn't have highlighted
that in yellow and uh all that if if she
had gotten it on the tape. And so I
think it was just an error on my part.
Nothing we can do about it at this
point. We had the executive session. I
don't think
>> there goes your chances for reelection,
Jed.
>> Yep. Okay. I don't think it's a fatal
error. I I don't think so either, but uh
>> it almost sounds like we ended up doing
it by consensus whether we use that word
or not because we did have the executive
session.
>> Yeah, everybody wanted to do the
executive session. It was just a
question of did I I do the process
formally and correctly and and there's a
good chance that I didn't. You know, you
goof it up now and then and that uh just
one more of those things. I know what
that's like tonight.
>> Yeah.
So,
>> okay. I was just curious.
>> That's the story behind that, Leanne.
>> Okay. My other question is not about the
content so much.
>> Does need to have a
>> right
there. There was no Was there a motion
in the executive session?
>> I don't know. I I don't There was no
motion during the executive session.
>> Yeah. No, we then when So, when he came
out, it was seconded. Yeah. We it was
just a question of uh you know the
process for entering executive session
is we make a motion it gets uh seconded
and approved. I think we uh we got
sidetracked on some discussion there and
that happens from time to time. I you
just goofed it up but there you go.
There was nobody who didn't want to go
to executive session and we uh we all
went that way and uh came back out and
and voted our action.
>> Yeah.
>> The action the action was taken in
public.
>> Right. Yeah. As it should have been. So
yeah, just narrow my Bartley in. Not the
first, not the last. I agree that we
all, you know, we all,
my recollection is that we all agreed to
go into the executive session. I was
just wondering and and you're probably
right. You made a motion and maybe, you
know, it's and it sounds like nobody
else caught it either. If we didn't end
up voting to actually go into executive
session, then nobody else caught it
either, apparently. Either that or
Marina, it is an oversight. And I just
had another question about that. Um, the
minutes used to be signed all the time
by whoever did them and it almost seems
to me the board of selectman does or
doesn't do the same thing, which is not
our issue, but it it seems like it's
been a while since whoever took the
whoever composes the minutes
signs them.
>> That's a good point. I think I would
agree.
>> I I agree with that, too. you know the
you know and so the reason I did not
make an issue of that is last I'd heard
Marina is not going to be doing the
minutes anymore
>> and so we're going to have to get
somebody new and so
I didn't make a point of that when I
knew that her time for doing this was
coming to an end and we would be
training up somebody new shortly.
But I do like having on there who who
did them.
>> Well, it's not signed, but I noticed at
the at the bottom there's a statement
that the the Zoom recordings posted to
the Andover YouTube channel and then it
says submitted by the board clerk Marita
Pandalfi. So, her name's on there.
>> It's not a technical signature
>> on the on the printed copy. And I don't
know if it's on the digital copy or
>> Yeah,
>> it should be.
>> Yeah, it it is. I just read that blank
at the bottom.
>> Yeah, I read all the way in and it's all
the way at the bottom, Liam.
>> Okay,
I believe you.
>> Um,
everybody ready to vote?
Um, Jed, hi.
>> Oh, it's really small, but I see it.
Okay.
>> Okay. Uh, Leanne
>> I
>> Oh, I should have said sorry. This is a
vote to accept the minutes. You You
stated. Um, and Corb
I saw the hand.
>> Okay. I um Scott
>> I
>> and myself I mot uh passes 500.
>> And
moving on to item 12 on the agenda. Next
regular schedule meeting January 20th,
2026.
And uh I'd like to invite everybody to
attend in person if possible. If not,
then uh please let me know ahead of time
if you can't attend via Zoom and um
on to the last item.
Make a motion to adjurnn.
>> Before you have to wish everybody merry
Christmas
>> merry Christmas, happy new year.
>> Thank you for everybody's work and uh
attention to detail and we'll see you
next month. Happy holidays. Um,
Jed,
>> hi.
>> Oh, I didn't get a second. Okay,
>> I second. It's hard to do. You get
there.
>> Um,
okay. Um,
>> all in favor say I.
>> I.
>> Any oppose?
>> These two.
>> Any
that.
>> Thank you everybody. This will make